.. _g-monitor:

Monitoring Jobs
====================

**bjobs**

The commands ``bjobs`` displays information about your own pending,
running, and suspended jobs.

::

    [username@pegasus ~]$ bjobs
    JOBID  USER   STAT  QUEUE    FROM_HOST  EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME  SUBMIT_TIME
    4225   usernam   RUN   normal  login1.pega       16*n060     testjob   Mar  2 11:53
                                             16*n061
                                             16*n063
                                             16*n064

For details about your particular job, issue the command
``bjobs -l jobID`` where ``jobID`` is obtained from the ``JOBID`` field
of the above ``bjobs`` output. To display a specific userâ€™s jobs, use
``bjobs -u username``. To display all user jobs in paging format, pipe
output to ``less``:

::

    [username@pegasus ~]$ bjobs -u all | less
    JOBID     USER    STAT  QUEUE      FROM_HOST   EXEC_HOST   JOB_NAME   SUBMIT_TIME
    5990529   axt651  RUN   interactiv login1.pega n021        bash       Feb 13 15:23
    6010636   zxh69   RUN   normal    login1.pega 16*n178     *acsjob-01 Feb 23 11:36
                                                   16*n180
                                                   16*n203
                                                   16*n174
    6014246   swishne RUN   interactiv n002.pegasu n002        bash       Feb 24 14:10
    6017561   asingh  PEND  interactiv login1.pega             matlab     Feb 25 14:49
    ...

**bhist**

``bhist`` displays information about your recently finished jobs. CPU
time is not normalized in ``bhist`` output. To see your *finished* and
*unfinished* jobs, use ``bhist -a``.

**bkill**

``bkill`` kills the last job submitted by the user running the command,
by default. The command ``bkill jobID`` will remove a specific job from
the queue and terminate the job **if** it is running. ``bkill 0`` will
kill all jobs belonging to current user.

::

    [username@pegasus ~]$ bkill 4225
    Job <4225> is being terminated

On Pegasus (Unix), SIGINT and SIGTERM are sent to give the job a chance
to clean up before termination, then SIGKILL is sent to kill the job.

**bqueues**

``bqueues`` displays information about queues such as queue name, queue
priority, queue status, job slot statistics, and job state statistics.
CPU time is normalized by CPU factor.

::

   [nra20@pegasus ~]$ bqueues
   QUEUE_NAME      PRIO STATUS          MAX JL/U JL/P JL/H NJOBS  PEND   RUN  SUSP 
   gpu_h100_premiu  99  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0
   sccc_premium     99  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0
   sccc_bigmem_pre  99  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0
   sccc_gpu_premiu  99  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0
   admin            50  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0
   hihg             30  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0
   bigmem           30  Open:Active       -    -    -    -    82    50    32     0
   gpu_titan        30  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0
   gpu_h100         30  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0
   interactive      30  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     2     0     2     0
   jupyter          30  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0
   hp               30  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0
   normal           30  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0
   sccc             10  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     1     0     1     0
   sccc_dev         10  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0
   sccc_bigmem      10  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0
   sccc_gpu         10  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0
   sccc_jupyter     10  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0
   sccc_restudio    10  Open:Active       -    -    -    -     0     0     0     0

**bhosts**

``bhosts`` displays information about all hosts such as host name, host
status, job state statistics, and jobs lot limits. ``bhosts -s``
displays information about numeric resources (shared or host-based) and
their associated hosts. ``bhosts hostname`` displays information about
an individual host and ``bhosts -w`` displays more detailed host status.
closed_Full means the configured maximum number of running jobs has been
reached (running jobs will not be affected), no new job will be assigned
to this host.

::

    [username@pegasus ~]$ bhosts -w | less
   HOST_NAME          STATUS          JL/U    MAX  NJOBS    RUN  SSUSP  USUSP    RSV 
   gpu1               ok              -     96      0      0      0      0      0
   gpu2               ok              -     96      0      0      0      0      0
   login1             ok              -     16      0      0      0      0      0
   n021               ok              -     16      2      2      0      0      0
   .
   .
   n044               ok              -     16      0      0      0      0      0
   n045               ok              -     16      0      0      0      0      0

**bpeek**

Use ``bpeek jobID`` to monitor the progress of a job and identify
errors. If errors are observed, valuable user time and system resources
can be saved by terminating an erroneous job with ``bkill jobID``. By
default, ``bpeek`` displays the standard output and standard error
produced by one of your unfinished jobs, up to the time the command is
invoked. ``bpeek -q queuename`` operates on your most recently submitted
job in that queue and ``bpeek -m hostname`` operates on your most
recently submitted job dispatched to the specified host.
``bpeek -f jobID`` display live outputs from a running job and it can be
terminated by ``Ctrl-C`` (Windows & most Linux) or ``Command-C`` (Mac).
