.. _general-software-r:

R
=

R can be used through software modules, Conda environments, RStudio, JupyterHub,
or containers. This page covers common command-line R workflows and R package
management. For Conda-based R environments, see the Conda and Anaconda page.

.. note::

   R versions, module names, and available packages can differ across systems.
   Check the system where the job will run before writing a job script.

Find and Load R
---------------

Search for R modules:

::

   module avail R
   module spider R

Load an R module:

::

   module load R/<version>

Check the active R:

::

   which R
   R --version

Start R interactively:

::

   R

Run an R script:

::

   Rscript script.R

or:

::

   R CMD BATCH script.R

User R Package Libraries
------------------------

Users can install R packages into a personal library when they do not have write
access to the system library.

Inside R:

.. code:: r

   install.packages("ggplot2")

If R asks whether to use a personal library, answer yes.

To set a project-specific R library path, create a directory and set
``R_LIBS_USER`` before starting R:

::

   mkdir -p /scratch/projects/<project>/$USER/Rlibs
   export R_LIBS_USER=/scratch/projects/<project>/$USER/Rlibs
   R

Inside R, check the library paths:

.. code:: r

   .libPaths()

Install packages:

.. code:: r

   install.packages("dplyr")

.. tip::

   Use a project-specific R library for research projects that need stable
   package versions or many dependencies.

Run R in LSF
------------

Create ``r_job.sh``:

.. code:: bash

   #!/bin/bash
   #BSUB -P <project>
   #BSUB -J r_job
   #BSUB -q general
   #BSUB -n 1
   #BSUB -R "rusage[mem=4000]"
   #BSUB -W 01:00
   #BSUB -o r_job.%J.out
   #BSUB -e r_job.%J.err

   module load R/<version>

   export R_LIBS_USER=/scratch/projects/<project>/$USER/Rlibs
   mkdir -p ${R_LIBS_USER}

   Rscript script.R

Submit the job:

::

   bsub < r_job.sh

Using R through Conda
---------------------

If the system R module does not support the package dependencies needed for a
project, create a Conda environment with R.

Example:

::

   conda create -n r_env -c conda-forge r-base r-essentials
   conda activate r_env
   R

For more details, see the Conda and Anaconda page.

System Notes
------------

Pegasus
~~~~~~~

Pegasus can use R through modules, Conda environments, RStudio, JupyterHub, or
containers. If module-based R does not support required packages, Conda-based R
is a useful alternative.

Triton/Summit
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Triton/Summit uses ``ppc64le`` architecture. Conda-based R environments should
use packages that support ``linux-ppc64le`` when possible. Some R packages may
compile from source or require additional system libraries.

.. caution::

   On ``ppc64le`` systems, package availability may differ from standard
   ``x86_64`` systems. Check package platform support before assuming that a
   Conda or CRAN package will install.

Recommended Practice
--------------------

* Use module-based R for simple workflows.
* Use project-specific R libraries for reproducible package sets.
* Use Conda when the module R version or dependencies are not sufficient.
* Use RStudio or JupyterHub for interactive development.
* Use LSF batch jobs for long-running R scripts.
