.. _general-software-r:

R
=

R is available on Pegasus based on the current software review. Triton/Summit R
availability is not listed here unless confirmed.

R can be used through modules, Conda/Miniforge environments, JupyterHub kernels,
RStudio if supported, or Apptainer containers.

Find and Load R
---------------

Search for R:

::

   module avail R
   module spider R

Load R:

::

   module load R/<version>

Check R:

::

   which R
   R --version

Run an R script:

::

   Rscript script.R

User R Libraries
----------------

Create a project-specific R library:

::

   mkdir -p /scratch/projects/<project>/$USER/Rlibs
   export R_LIBS_USER=/scratch/projects/<project>/$USER/Rlibs

Inside R:

.. code:: r

   .libPaths()
   install.packages("ggplot2")

Run R in LSF
------------

Example job script:

.. code:: bash

   #!/bin/bash
   #BSUB -P <project>
   #BSUB -J r_job
   #BSUB -q general
   #BSUB -n 1
   #BSUB -R "rusage[mem=4000]"
   #BSUB -W 01:00
   #BSUB -o r_job.%J.out
   #BSUB -e r_job.%J.err

   module load R/<version>

   export R_LIBS_USER=/scratch/projects/<project>/$USER/Rlibs
   mkdir -p ${R_LIBS_USER}

   Rscript script.R

Pegasus Notes
-------------

R is available on Pegasus. Use module-based R for simple workflows, and use
project-specific R libraries or Conda/Miniforge environments for custom package
sets.

Triton/Summit Notes
-------------------

R availability on Triton/Summit should be confirmed before documenting it as
available. If R is needed and a module is not available, consider Conda,
JupyterHub kernels, or Apptainer.

.. caution::

   Do not state that R is available on Triton/Summit unless it has been
   confirmed with ``module avail R`` or current system documentation.

Recommended Practice
--------------------

* Use R modules when available.
* Use project-specific R libraries for reproducible package sets.
* Use LSF batch jobs for long-running scripts.
* Use Conda/Miniforge or Apptainer when module-based R is not sufficient.
